Chapter 1
1 At the beginning of God's creating of the heavens and the earth,
2 when the earth was wild and waste, darkness over the face of Ocean, rushing-spirit of God hovering over the face of the waters—
3 God said: Let there be light! And there was light.
4 God saw the light: that it was good. God separated the light from the darkness.
5 God called the light: Day! and the darkness he called: Night! There was setting, there was dawning: one day.
6 God said: Let there be a dome amid the waters, and let it separate waters from waters!
7 God made the dome and it separated the waters that were below the dome from the waters that were above the dome. It was so.
8 God called the dome: Heaven! There was setting, there was dawning: second day.
9 God said: Let the waters under the heavens be gathered to one place, and let the dry land be seen! It was so.
10 God called the dry land: Earth! and the gathering of the waters he called: Seas! God saw that it was good.
11 God said: Let the earth sprout forth with sprouting-growth, plants that seed forth seeds, fruit trees that yield fruit, after their kind, (and) in which is their seed, upon the earth! It was so.
12 The earth brought forth sprouting-growth, plants that seed forth seeds, after their kind, trees that yield fruit, in which is their seed, after their kind. God saw that it was good.
13 There was setting, there was dawning: third day.
14 God said: Let there be lights in the dome of the heavens, to separate the day from the night, that they may be for signs, for set-times, for days and years,
15 and let them be for lights in the dome of the heavens, to provide light upon the earth! It was so.
16 God made the two great lights, the greater light for ruling the day and the smaller light for ruling the night, and the stars.
17 God placed them in the dome of the heavens to provide light upon the earth,
18 to rule the day and the night, to separate the light from the darkness. God saw that it was good.
19 There was setting, there was dawning: fourth day.
20 God said: Let the waters swarm with a swarm of living beings, and let fowl fly above the earth, across the face of the dome of the heavens!
21 God created the great sea-serpents and all living beings that crawl about, with which the waters swarmed, after their kind, and all winged fowl after their kind. God saw that it was good.
22 God blessed them, saying: Bear fruit and be many and fill the waters in the seas, and let the fowl be many on earth!
23 There was setting, there was dawning: fifth day.
24 God said: Let the earth bring forth living beings after their kind, herd-animals, crawling things, and the wildlife of the earth after their kind! It was so.
25 God made the wildlife of the earth after their kind, the herd-animals after their kind, and all crawling things of the soil after their kind. God saw that it was good.
26 God said: Let us make humankind, in our image, according to our likeness! Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, the fowl of the heavens, animals, all the earth, and all crawling things that crawl about upon the earth!
27 God created humankind in his image, in the image of God did he create it, male and female did he create them.
28 God blessed them, God said to them: Bear fruit and be many and fill the earth and subdue it! Have dominion over the fish of the sea, the fowl of the heavens, and all living things that crawl about upon the earth!
29 God said: Here, I give you all plants that bear seeds that are upon the face of all the earth, and all trees in which there is tree fruit that bears seeds, for you shall they be, for eating;
30 and also for all the living things of the earth, for all the fowl of the heavens, for all that crawls about upon the earth in which there is living being—all green plants for eating. It was so.
31 God saw all that he had made, and here: it was exceedingly good! There was setting, there was dawning: the sixth day.

Chapter 2
1 Thus were finished the heavens and the earth, with all of their array.
2 God had finished, on the seventh day, his work that he had made, and then he ceased, on the seventh day, from all his work that he had made.
3 God gave the seventh day his blessing, and he hallowed it, for on it he ceased from all his work, that by creating, God had made.
4 These are the begettings of the heavens and the earth: their being created. At the time of YHWH, God's making of earth and heaven—
5 no bush of the field was yet on earth, no plant of the field had yet sprung up, for YHWH, God, had not made it rain upon earth, and there was no human to till the soil;
6 but a surge would well up from the earth and water all the face of the soil—
7 and YHWH, God, formed the human, of dust from the soil, he blew into his nostrils the breath of life and the human became a living being.
8 YHWH, God, planted a garden in Eden/Land-of-Pleasure, in the east, and there he placed the human whom he had formed.
9 YHWH, God, caused to spring up from the soil every type of tree, desirable to look at and good to eat, and the Tree of Life in the midst of the garden and the Tree of the Knowing of Good and Evil.
10 Now a river goes out from Eden, to water the garden, and from there it divides and becomes four stream-heads.
